# Heart-disease-prediction
Nowadays, the number of heart diseases is increasing regardless of gender or age. According to WHO, heart disease is the largest cause of death in the world. Of these, ischemic heart disease accounts for 16% and stroke accounts for 11% of deaths globally. Since 2000, deaths from the disease have increased the most, increasing by more than 2 million to 8.9 million deaths in 2019.

Common heart diseases include blood vessel diseases such as coronary artery disease, arrhythmias and congenital heart defects, along with many other diseases.

Therefore, early prediction of cardiovascular disease is considered one of the important issues in clinical data analysis. But it is difficult to accurately determine and predict early symptoms of heart disease because there are many factors such as diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, abnormal heart rhythm and many other factors. The amount of data in the healthcare industry is huge. Therefore, data mining and extracting information from this large data set is necessary to support early diagnosis and prevention of possible cardiovascular complications.

In this project, I will apply basic machine learning methods (Naive bayes, K-nearest neigbors (KNN), Decision tree, Random forest, Adaboost, Gradient boost, XGBoost and Support vector machine (SVM)) to predict whether a person is likely to have heart disease based on the `Cleveland Heart Disease` dataset from the `UCI Machine Learning Repository`. The dataset contains 14 information columns which are Age, Sex, Chest-pain type, Resting Blood Pressure, Serum Cholestrol, Fasting Blood Sugar, Resting ECG, Max heart rate achieved, ST depression induced by exercise relative to res, Peak exercise ST segment, Number of major vessels (0–3) colored by flourosopy, Displays the thalassemia, Diagnosis of heart disease (0 represents patients without the disease, and 1,2,3,4 represent patients with the disease). 
